practice practice practice this is the
number one thing I talk about many times
on my YouTube channel which is all about
improving your presenting and your
public speaking skills and in this clip
I wanted to share an interview I did a
few years ago with the world's greatest
freestyle rapper who talks about the
importance of practice and I'll show you
that clip in just a moment but the
reason practice is so incredibly
important is because the more we get
comfortable with the material we're
going to present to an audience the less
likely we're going to have nerves and
anxiety the day of presenting we're
becoming familiar with the process of
speaking in front of a group of people
this is why I talk about Toastmasters
being a good program this is why I
encourage you to record yourself
practicing your speech these are all
ways to improve those skills but going
back to a few years ago I had the chance
to interview Harry Mac and if you're not
familiar with Harry Mack he's incredible
he goes up to random groups of people
and he asks them to give him random
words right on the spot and then he'll
take these variety of words and he'll
turn them into a freestyle rap in real
time I'm going to link to Harry's
Channel Down Below but I had the chance
to interview Harry and one of the
questions I asked him is what gives him
the confidence to walk up to to a random
group of people with the knowledge that
he's going to have to perform and that
they're going to be judging him right
there in the moment Harry's words of
wisdom were something that have stuck
with me throughout the last few years
and I reference his quote often and I
think about it because I think it's so
incredibly powerful so here's that clip
from Harry Mack with regard to practice
I've practiced so much right in in an
organized way and I I really have a lot
of experience so you know as
professional musicians what we try to do
is practice to a point where um there's
a lot of headro right so it's like uh
you know even on my worst day if I'm
feeling very uninspired you know or I'm
in a bad mood or something bad has
happened to me you know uh whatever it
is um I know that I have this Foundation
this skill set you know where where even
on an off day I'll still be able to
deliver at at an acceptable professional
level and obviously I'm always striving
to go beyond that right I'm always
hoping to really hit that Peak
inspiration and and really tap into that
flow State and do something that that
even I can be you know impressed by but
if if we can't get there for whatever
reason on any given day I I still am
confident that I'll be able to deliver
at an acceptable professional level so
that's what kind of that that can help
you know when you're in those
nerve-wracking situations to remember
okay we've done this we've done this a
lot of times and you know the skill set
is going to be there to serve me even
when I'm nervous this concept is so
powerful and even though Harry was
talking about freestyle rapping I truly
believe this relates to public speaking
as well and this idea that sure every
now and then we may hit our speech out
of the park and do a phenomenal job but
the overall goal is to build our base
skill level so that even on our worst
day even when we're not feeling overly
creative or our head is full we are
still able to deliver our presentation
at an acceptable professional level I'm
always blown away when I speak to people
about the fact that I've been a member
of Toast Masters for the last decade and
sometimes they respond by saying oh
that's cool yeah I used to do Toast
Masters a bunch of years ago and they
talk about it as though it's something
they've graduated from and in my mind
that's like somebody saying oh you work
out cool yeah I used to work out like
eight years ago it was great well we
know if you don't continue to exercise
your Fitness level is going to degrade
you're not going to have a strong
muscles Fitness is something you have to
work on over time and I believe the same
for public speaking I think that this is
a muscle that you have to continue to
practice to imple Implement these skills
and I've noticed the times where I stop
going to Toastmasters meetings for
several weeks in a row I can feel I'm
getting rustier the quality of my
speeches isn't as good public speaking
is a long-term commitment it's something
we should stick at and the more we do so
just like Harry said we'll raise our
minimum standard to always be performing
at a professional level I hope this
quick video reminder on the importance
of practice has been helpful to you if
it was please make sure you're
subscribed to my channel so you never
miss a video and I'll catch you on the
next one